and it came to pass in the 12th year in
the 12th month on the first day of the
month that the word of the Lord came to
me son of man take up a lamentation for
Pharaoh king of Egypt and say to him you
are like a young lion among the nations
and you are like a monster in the seas
bursting forth in your rivers troubling
the waters with your feet and fouling
their rivers I will therefore spread my
net over you with a company of many
people and they will draw you up in my
net then I will leave you on the land I
will cast you out on the open fields and
cause to settle on you all the birds of
the heavens and with you I will fill the
beasts of the whole earth I will lay
your flesh on the mountains and fill the
valleys with your carcass
I will also water the land with the flow
of your blood even to the mountains and
the riverbeds will be full of you when I
put out your light I will cover the
heavens and make it Stars dark and cover
the Sun with a cloud and the moon shall
not give her light all the bright lights
of the heavens I will make dark over you
and bringing darkness upon your land
[Music]
I will also trouble the hearts of many
people's when I bring your destruction
among the nations into the countries
which you have not known yes I will make
many people's astonished at you and
their kings shall be horribly afraid of
you when I brandish my sword before them
and they shall tremble every moment
every man for his own life in the day of
your fall for thus says the Lord God the
sword of the king of Babylon shall come
upon you by the swords of the mighty
warriors all of them the most terrible
of the nations I will cause your
multitude to fall they shall plunder the
pomp of Egypt and all its multitude
shall be destroyed also I will destroy
all its animals from beside its great
waters the foot of man shall muddy them
no more nor shall the hooves of animals
muddy them then I will make their waters
clear and make their rivers run like oil
says the Lord God
when I make the land of Egypt desolate
and the country is destitute of all that
once filled it when I strike all who
dwell in it then they shall know that I
am the Lord this is the lamentation with
which they shall lament her the
daughters of the nation's shall lament
her they shall lament for her for Egypt
and for all her multitude says the Lord
God it came to pass also in the 12th
year on the fifteenth day of the month
that the word of the Lord came to me son
of man wail over the multitude of Egypt
and cast them down to the depths of the
earth her and the daughters of the
famous nations with those who go down to
the pit
whom do you surpass in beauty go down be
placed with the uncircumcised
they shall fall in the midst of those
slain by the sword
she is delivered to the sword drawing
her and all her multitude the strong
among the mighty shall speak to him out
of the midst of hell with those who help
him they have gone down they lie with
the uncircumcised slain by the sword
Assyria is there and all her company
with their graves all around her all of
them slain fallen by the sword her
graves are set in the recesses of the
pit and her company is all around her
grave all of them slammed fallen by the
salt who caused terror in the land of
the living there is Elam and all her
multitude all around her grave
all of them slain fallen by the sword
who have gone down uncircumcised to the
lower parts of the earth who caused
their terror in the land of the living
now they bare their shame with those who
go down to the pit they have set her bed
in the midst of the slain with all her
multitude with her graves all around it
all of them uncircumcised slain by the
sword though their terror was caused in
the land of the living yet they bare
their shame with those who go down to
the pit it was put in the midst of the
slain
there are Meshach and tubal and all
their multitudes with all their graves
around it all of them uncircumcised
slain by the sword though they caused
their
tarah in the land of the living they do
not lie with the mighty who are fallen
of the uncircumcised who have gone down
to hell with their weapons of war they
have laid their swords under their heads
but their iniquities will be on their
bones because of the terror of the
mighty in the land of the living
yes you shall be broke in the midst of
the uncircumcised and lie with those
slain by the sword there is Edom her
kings and all her princes who despite
their might are laid beside those slain
by the sword they shall lie with the
uncircumcised and with those who go down
to the pit there are the princes of the
north all of them and all the side
onehans who have gone down with the
slain in shame of the terror which they
caused by their might they lie
uncircumcised with those slain by the
sword and bear their shame with those
who go down to the pit Pharaoh will see
them and be comforted over all his
multitude Pharaoh and all his army slain
by the sword says the Lord God for I
have caused my terror in the land of the
living and he shall be placed in the
midst of the uncircumcised with those
slain by the sword Pharaoh and all his
multitude says the Lord God
you